[ta] 01 - 3 common types of test automation (#10243)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/ta-types/index.md

{% Img src="image/dPDCek3EhZgLQPGtEG3y0fTn4v82/2PY6rfmGkB26vX3qIbsj.jpeg", alt="The same cupboard but with two drawers you can open at the same time.", width="800", height="450" %}

Apply this to web development: we wrote some tests, maybe even achieved 100% test coverage, but our application still needs to perform as soon as other parts come into place. The units are working perfectly well but not in relation to each other. Consequently, writing some tests is crucial, but only one part of finding the ideal test setup for your project. As a very first step, we need to determine which parts of the quality of my application need to be ensured and how we want to achieve that. 

Simply put, we want to have a plan before starting to write actual test code. Therefore, we will answer two basic questions in approaching the topic of how to test practically:

- How do we want to test?
- What do we want to test?

> This particular article focuses on the first question. Our main goal is to plan the right strategy for testing, but we’ll cover the very first steps here: Let’s discover which testing types can be used to start from a common ground. In later articles we’ll combine them and thus find the testing strategies which fit our project best - based on the groundwork we learn here. Let's go! 🙌

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This particular article focuses on the first question. Our main goal is to plan the right strategy for testing, but we’ll cover the very first steps here: Let’s discover which testing types can be used to start from a common ground. In later articles we’ll combine them and thus find the testing strategies which fit our project best—based on the groundwork we learn here. Let's go! 🙌
```

> This particular article focuses on the first question. Our main goal is to plan the right strategy for testing, but we’ll cover the very first steps here: Let’s discover which testing types can be used to start from a common ground. In later articles we’ll combine them and thus find the testing strategies which fit our project best - based on the groundwork we learn here. Let's go! 🙌

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This particular article focuses on the first question. Our main goal is to plan the right strategy for testing, but we’ll cover the very first steps here: let’s discover which testing types can be used to start from a common ground. In later articles we’ll combine them and thus find the testing strategies which fit our project best - based on the groundwork we learn here. Let's go! 🙌
```

> ## Let's start with the basics: general testing modes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Let's start with the basics: General testing modes
```

The first point to clarify in answering the question of how to test is very abstract. We need to roughly define the way we want to test—should we do it ourselves or should a computer take over? Tiny spoiler alert: we need to avoid falling into binary thinking here. But let's dive into the basics first.

### Manual testing versus automated testing

If you ask people to define testing, you'll probably encounter two answers:

> * **Manual testing**: This is the typical method of testing, done by actual people. That means a test will click through the application and check if it works and, at the same time, try to break it. Exploratory testing is the most common way: As the name implies, a tester expires the application, using their own knowledge to investigate the application under test with a predetermined path or any checklists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Manual testing**. This is the typical method of testing, done by actual people. That means a test will click through the application and check if it works and, at the same time, try to break it. Exploratory testing is the most common way: as the name implies, a tester expires the application, using their own knowledge to investigate the application under test with a predetermined path or any checklists.
```

> * **Automated testing**: This is the answer you might get from developers and testers. Monotonous checklist testing is, in particular, a primary candidate for automation. Thus a computer will do the testing for us.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Automated testing**. This is the answer you might get from developers and testers. Monotonous checklist testing is, in particular, a primary candidate for automation. Thus a computer will do the testing for us.
```

> This series of guides will mostly focus on automated testing. However, a small but important disclaimer: you shouldn't focus on only one way of testing! Even if automation saves a lot of time and effort, humans and thus manual testing will always play a vital role. Rather, test automation should ensure that people can focus on what is important in manual testing, that is, the exploratory testing of the most important features: All test cases where our improvisation and creativity can shine, e.g. in user experience or testing the business logic with high risk involved. In other words, automation has our back. ❤️

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This series of guides will mostly focus on automated testing. However, a small but important disclaimer: you shouldn't focus on only one way of testing! Even if automation saves a lot of time and effort, humans and thus manual testing will always play a vital role. Rather, test automation should ensure that people can focus on what is important in manual testing, that is, the exploratory testing of the most important features: all test cases where our improvisation and creativity can shine, for example, in user experience or testing the business logic with high risk involved. In other words, automation has our back. ❤️
```

### Opaque box versus clear box

So, we have defined the general way we test. However, that’s not enough yet—we now need to get deeper into the details. To plan your testing strategies even more thoroughly, let’s take a look at testing procedures or modes. In both cases, no matter if you go for manual or automated testing, there's one more question to answer. Should you know how your application works under the hood, or is it more helpful to test without this knowledge, basically as a clean slate?

- One procedure for deriving and selecting test cases is called **opaque box testing** (also known as black box testing). It is based on analyzing a component or system's functional or non-functional requirements (specifications) without considering its internal structure.

> - The second approach is the opposite: **clear box testing** (also called white box testing) is a procedure for deriving and selecting test cases while considering the internal structure of said box - in other words considering how your application works under the hood.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The second approach is the opposite: **clear box testing** (also called white box testing) is a procedure for deriving and selecting test cases while considering the internal structure of said box—in other words, considering how your application works under the hood.
```

As illustrated in the meme mentioned earlier, we have already come across two types—unit testing and integration testing. There are even more essential types to consider, so let's get a brief overview.

### Unit testing

Unit testing is a testing type in which minor testable parts or units of an application, called units, are individually and independently tested for proper operation. These units can vary in range from functions, classes, or interfaces, to services or complete components. Their primary attributes are their execution speed, isolation, and comfortable maintainability. If you want to dive deeper into unit testing, head over to this [guide on unit testing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unit_testing).

{% Img src="image/dPDCek3EhZgLQPGtEG3y0fTn4v82/kVCbDIZN23OUGwOdpJmm.jpeg", alt="A simplified depiction of unit testing showing input and output.", width="800", height="450" %}

{% Aside %}

> Possible tools to include (but not limited to) are [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/) and [Jest](https://jestjs.io/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Possible tools include but aren't limited to [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/) and [Jest](https://jestjs.io/).
```

{% Aside %}
The tools you may consider using are often the same as those mentioned in the [unit testing section](#unit-testing) and can also include frameworks providing component testing, for example, [WebdriverIO](https://webdriver.io/) and [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/).
{% endAside %}

### End-to-End testing

These tests are often called UI tests, and this name explains their function even better. These tests interact with your application’s UI, including the complete application stack, and test your application from beginning to end.

{% Img src="image/dPDCek3EhZgLQPGtEG3y0fTn4v82/9ZWWlop306SoGFP9rbeH.jpeg", alt="A simplified depiction of end-to-end testing showing a computer as a robot, looking at a workflow.", width="800", height="450" %}

They resemble a system test if you refer to the theory of quality assurance. Thus, these tests simulate a genuine user and their interaction. These tests take more time because they involve the whole system. More runtime also means more computing power is needed and developers spending more time on waiting for pipelines to finish. Consequently, this additional effort results in higher maintenance costs. 

{% Aside %}

> Possible tools to include (but not limited to) are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Possible tools include but aren't limited to:
```

> * [WebdriverIO](https://webdriver.io/) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

* [WebdriverIO](https://webdriver.io/) 
```

* [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/)
* [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/)
* [Selenium](https://www.selenium.dev/)
{% endAside %}

#### Visual UI testing

> An interesting subcategory of UI tests is visual tests. Those tests are extended end-to-end tests, providing a process of checking the visible output of an application by screenshot comparison: A screenshot of the change is compared with another screenshot containing the “status quo” - or in other words, a golden file -  and providing those results to a human reviewer to inspect and check. Put another way: it helps to find “visual bugs” in the appearance of a page, beyond purely functional bugs and outside the concept, not explicitly written down into assertions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An interesting subcategory of UI tests is visual tests. Those tests are extended end-to-end tests, providing a process of checking the visible output of an application by screenshot comparison: A screenshot of the change is compared with another screenshot containing the “status quo”—or in other words, a golden file—and providing those results to a human reviewer to inspect and check. Put another way: it helps find “visual bugs” in the appearance of a page, beyond purely functional bugs and outside the concept, not explicitly written down into assertions.
```

### Static analysis

> There’s one more thing I want to introduce here: Static analysis is not a testing type in the textbook way. However, we’ll include it here as it will be an essential aspect in quality assurance  strategies later on. You can imagine it working like a spell check function: it scans your code for more significant defects and syntax errors without running the program, thus detecting code style issues. This simple measure can prevent many bugs. This is a good starting point to learn about Static Analysis if you want to get to know it in more detail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There’s one more thing we want to introduce here: static analysis is not a testing type in the textbook way. However, we’ll include it here as it will be an essential aspect in quality assurance  strategies later on. You can imagine it working like a spell check function: it scans your code for more significant defects and syntax errors without running the program, thus detecting code style issues. This simple measure can prevent many bugs. This is a good starting point to learn about Static Analysis if you want to get to know it in more detail.
```

{% Aside %}

> Tools to include (but not limited to) are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tools include but aren't limited to:
```

> - [Eslint](https://eslint.org/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- [Eslint](https://eslint.org/)
```

{% Img src="image/dPDCek3EhZgLQPGtEG3y0fTn4v82/2PY6rfmGkB26vX3qIbsj.jpeg", alt="The same cupboard but with two drawers you can open at the same time.", width="800", height="450" %}

Apply this to web development: we wrote some tests, maybe even achieved 100% test coverage, but our application still needs to perform as soon as other parts come into place. The units are working perfectly well but not in relation to each other. Consequently, writing some tests is crucial, but only one part of finding the ideal test setup for your project. As a very first step, we need to determine which parts of the quality of our application need to be ensured and how we want to achieve that. 

Simply put, we want to have a plan before starting to write actual test code. Therefore, we will answer two basic questions in approaching the topic of how to test practically:

- How do we want to test?
- What do we want to test?

> This particular article focuses on the first question. Our main goal is to plan the right strategy for testing, but we’ll cover the very first steps here: Let’s discover which testing types can be used to start from a common ground. In later articles we’ll combine them and thus find the testing strategies which fit our project best—based on the groundwork we learn here. Let's go! 🙌

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This particular article focuses on the first question. Our main goal is to plan the right strategy for testing, but we’ll cover the very first steps here: let’s discover which testing types can be used to start from a common ground. In later articles we’ll combine them and thus find the testing strategies which fit our project best—based on the groundwork we learn here. Let's go! 🙌
```

## Let's start with the basics: General testing modes

The first point to clarify in answering the question of how to test is very abstract. We need to roughly define the way we want to test—should we do it ourselves or should a computer take over? Tiny spoiler alert: we need to avoid falling into binary thinking here. But let's dive into the basics first.

### Manual testing versus automated testing

If you ask people to define testing, you'll probably encounter two answers:

* **Manual testing**. This is the typical method of testing, done by actual people. That means a test will click through the application and check if it works and, at the same time, try to break it. Exploratory testing is the most common way: as the name implies, a tester expires the application, using their own knowledge to investigate the application under test with a predetermined path or any checklists.
* **Automated testing**. This is the answer you might get from developers and testers. Monotonous checklist testing is, in particular, a primary candidate for automation. Thus a computer will do the testing for us.

> This series of guides will mostly focus on automated testing. However, a small but important disclaimer: you shouldn't focus on only one way of testing! Even if automation saves a lot of time and effort, humans and thus manual testing will always play a vital role. Rather, test automation should ensure that people can focus on what is important in manual testing, that is, the exploratory testing of the most important features: All test cases where our improvisation and creativity can shine, for example, in user experience or testing the business logic with high risk involved. In other words, automation has our back. ❤️

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This series of guides will mostly focus on automated testing. However, a small but important disclaimer: you shouldn't focus on only one way of testing! Even if automation saves a lot of time and effort, humans and thus manual testing will always play a vital role. Rather, test automation should ensure that people can focus on what is important in manual testing, that is, the exploratory testing of the most important features: all test cases where our improvisation and creativity can shine, for example, in user experience or testing the business logic with high risk involved. In other words, automation has our back. ❤️
```
